+++
title = "Chonos"
date = 2021-10-25
template = "page.html"
+++

<p></p><p>Some major projects and phases of work. These are some mainline events and bodies of work I've created over the years.  All of this has combined to allow me to create the work I do today.  I view life as completely intertwined with the creation of art.  I've spent much of my life learning to translate my intensely lived experiences into works of art which communicate deeply to other beings.  </p><hr><h3 id="a-brief-chronology">A Brief Chronology:</h3><p></p><h3 id="2021presentintentionally-confusing"><em>2021 - Present</em><br>Intentionally Confusing </h3><p><a href="https://intentionallyconfusing.com">https://intentionallyconfusing.com</a></p><p>Online project for fostering communities into robust and supporting audiences. Using a membership “sustaining member” model of crowdfunding to provide sustained funding for experimental art. We treat ourselves as the social media platform.</p><h3 id="2020-presentnature-cargo-cultoil-painting"><em>2020-Present</em><br>Nature Cargo Cult  - Oil Painting</h3><p>A body of paintings set in a speculative future where nature has realized the technology of mankind using the detritus of human civilization to afford survival in a post climate changed world. This project will be exhibited and also printed in book form.</p><h3 id="2019tomorrowsite-specific-installation"><em>2019</em><br>Tomorrow -  Site Specific Installation </h3><p>256 paintings on found and repurposed materials.  Tomorrow examined time, memory and the way our perceptions change as we age.</p><p>- Las Cruces, New Mexico<br>- Desert Archaic, TorC NM</p><h3 id="2019-presentmeteorictruth-or-consequences-new-mexico"><em>2019-Present</em><br>MeTeORiC - Truth or Consequences, New Mexico  </h3><p><a href="https://meteoric.world">https://meteoric.world</a></p><p>Co-Creator of the MeTeORiC festival in TorC.  The festival invites artists of all types to share works other more traditional festivals overlook.  We brought 30 artists from around the world to TorC to share film and art and foster conversations between urban and rural individuals.</p><h3 id="2016-presentlife-studiesoil-and-watercolor-paintings"><em>2016-Present</em><br>Life Studies - Oil and Watercolor Paintings.</h3><p>Painting from life, portraiture, figurative and landscapes.  Kyle’s technical mastery of painting combined with careful and patient observation of life creates paintings which appear “more real than real life”.</p><h3 id="2014-2018cyclum-lunaremoil-on-24kt-gold-leaf-on-panel"><em>2014-2018</em><br>Cyclum Lunarem - Oil on 24kt Gold Leaf on Panel</h3><p>Lunar investigations: in depth study of the Earth’s oldest timepiece. Multiple works created representing the phases of the moon, including oil paintings of all 96 moons of the summer of 2016.</p><h3 id="2013presentephemeraintaglio-drypoint-printmaking"><em>2013 - Present</em><br>Ephemera - Intaglio Drypoint Printmaking</h3><p>Examination of the glitches experienced in day to day reality. Select prints are hand colored or printed with chine-collé. Current series numbers in the 100’s of unique prints.</p><h3 id="2012-presentdesert-archaictruth-or-consequences-new-mexico"><em>2012-Present</em><br>Desert Archaic - Truth or Consequences, New Mexico</h3><p><a href="https://desertarchaic.com">https://desertarchaic.com</a></p><p>Art gallery and performance space created by Jeannie and Kyle as a tool to bring art to the rural community of TorC. The space started as an art gallery but quickly morphed into a tool for community building through art appreciation. Desert Archaic is credited as a catalyst for many individuals in making the decision to uproot their lives and move to TorC.</p><h3 id="2011-2016raindancesoil-painting"><em>2011-2016</em><br>Raindances - Oil Painting</h3><p>A group of 67 oil paintings dealing with water or lack thereof in the desert. Exhibited extensively and published in book form late 2018.</p><h3 id="2011-presentelephant-nesttruth-or-consequences-new-mexico"><em>2011-Present</em><br>Elephant Nest - Truth or Consequences, New Mexico</h3><p>Rehabilitation of a tiny 100 year old house and outbuildings creating a unique and magical living space and extensive artist studios. Elephant Nest will be turned into an artist residency in the coming years so that it can be enjoyed as a living sculpture.</p><h3 id="2010-2011homemade-spaceshipthe-american-west"><em>2010-2011</em><br>Homemade Spaceship - The American West</h3><p><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUe-TYCjZz0">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUe-TYCjZz</a></p><p>Kyle built a teardrop trailer with his partner Jeannie and lived for an entire year in the American West creating art and being part of nature.</p><h3 id="2010grand-enchantment-trailarizona-new-mexico-usa"><em>2010</em><br>Grand Enchantment Trail - Arizona &amp; New Mexico, USA</h3><p><a href="http://www.simblissity.net/get/">http://www.simblissity.net/get/</a></p><p>Self supported hike of the Grand Enchantment Trail. This route is still considered to be one of the hardest long hikes in the world because of the poor trail (often orienteering overland), difficult water sources and general thorny desert ruggedness.</p><h3 id="2005-2008volunteer-at-namgyal-monasterydharamshala-india"><em>2005-2008</em><br>Volunteer at Namgyal Monastery - Dharamshala, India</h3><p>At Namgyal Monastery Kyle trained both Tibetan monks to film, edit and distribute recordings of the teaching of His Holiness the Dalai Lama. He created an operational workflow for the archive of these recordings so future generations of Tibetans may learn from them.</p><h3 id="2001-2004montana-state-university"><em>2001-2004</em><br>Montana State University</h3><p>Student of Photography and Philosophy. Participated in shows and goings on typical of a undergrad student. Cemented in my work the desire to work in long series, especially to create “art” books. Freelance graphic design and illustration work. Unix geek (Solaris, Irix, OpenBSD &amp; Linux).</p><h3 id="1983-2001childhood-and-early-adolescencemontana"><em>1983-2001</em><br>Childhood and early adolescence - Montana</h3><p>Kyle produced art through his whole childhood, even winning a state wide competition in 3rd grade creating a poster for Montana State Parks. He was introduced to film via the VidKids program in middle school and worked on numerous film projects throughout the state.  He attained Eagle Scout rank and has continued to this day to be committed to service to the community.</p><p>He learned how to be adept at wilderness travel which in turn spurned a true love and admiration for the wild.  His being was infused with an extreme reverence for the natural world.</p>